Add blog post for running Cruise Control UI (#325)
strimzi/strimzi.github.io: _posts/2022-08-05-hacking-for-cruise-control-ui.md

---
layout: post
title: "Hacking Strimzi for Cruise Control UI"
date: 2022-10-31
author: kyle_liberti
---

> For some time now, Strimzi has offered Kubernetes native support Cruise Control allowing users to safely configure and communicate with Cruise Control through Strimzi custom resources.

Reviewer: I wonder if this can be written in a better way. You could for example say that
* Strimzi uses Cruise Control
* But it hides it from the user
* Users interact with CC only through the Strimzi custom resources -> through the operator

You can probably also add some reasons for it:
* Better abstraction when hiding CC as an implementation detail
* Better declarative support

Author: Updated the sentences based on the feedback, let me know what you think!

> This is great but sometimes it is a better user experience to interact with applications like Cruise Control through a UI.

Reviewer 2: Maybe say `User Interface` the first time, then we can use UI.

Reviewer 3: Subjective. Maybe we can say something like: _Rather than working with custom resources, you might prefer to interact with applications like Cruise Control through a user interface._

Although Strimzi does not offer direct support for the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) it can still be run alongside and connected to a Strimzi managed Cruise Control instance.

This post will walk through how to do so! 

## Prerequisites

> For starters we will need a Strimzi managed Kafka cluster with Cruise Control enabled.  

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For starters we will need a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster with Cruise Control enabled.  
```

```
                           *  *
                        *        *
                       *  Cruise  *
                       *  Control *
                        *        *
                           *  *
                            ^                   *  *         *  *          *  *
                            |                *        *   *        *    *        *
+----------+                |               *  Kafka   * *  Kafka   *  *  Kafka   *
|          |               *  *             *   Pod    * *   Pod    *  *   Pod    *
|  Kafka   |            *        *           *        *   *        *    *        *

> | Resource | <------+  * Cluster  * ----->      *  *         *  *          *  *

Reviewer 3: Can we have a title for the diagram (and others)? Assuming it's not _Kubernetes land_

|          | +------>  * Operator *
|          |            *        *              *  *         *  *          *  *
+----------+               *  *              *        *   *        *    *        *
                                            * Zookeeper* * Zookeeper*  * Zookeeper*
                                            *   Pod    * *   Pod    *  *   Pod    *
                                             *        *   *        *    *        *
                                                *  *         *  *          *  *

> Kubernetes Land                                          Kafka Cluster

Reviewer 4: I am not sure I like Asciiart :-) Can we get pictures like other blog posts? Unless you want strongly show your Asciiart skills :-P

Author: I do love my ascii art but your approval is more important :p Updated to excalidraw at your suggestions, the diagrams still need some work but let me know if this looks better!

Reviewer 4: Yeah they look much better :-P ... Thanks!

```

> Since the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) does not support HTTPs and Strimzi does not support creating custom Cruise Control API user roles we will need to disable Cruise Control SSL and HTTP basic authentication settings. 

Reviewer 2: - `does not support HTTPs` Is this true? When installed in the same container as Cruise Control the UI reuses the Cruise Control REST API setup so it should work with HTTPS. I think it should be possible to still use HTTPS with the proxy approach you took.
- `HTTPs` -> `HTTPS`
- Do we need the Kafka and ZooKeeper pods in the diagram? What about only having `Kafka Cluster`? That way the diagram would also work for KRaft clusters.

We can do so by configuring a Kafka custom resource like this:

``` 
# kafka-cruise-control.yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  cruiseControl:
    config:
      webserver.security.enable: false
      webserver.ssl.enable: false  
```

## Cruise Control UI

> With our Strimzi managed Kafka cluster deployed, we can now create a Cruise Control UI instance to run alongside it.

Reviewer 2: You took the proxy approach but have you considered building a new Cruise Control image with the UI added to it?

Author: Added new method for building a custom Cruise Control image

 *   UI  *              *        *
    *  *                   *  *
                            ^                   *  *         *  *          *  *
                            |                *        *   *        *    *        *
+----------+                |               *  Kafka   * *  Kafka   *  *  Kafka   *
|          |               *  *             *   Pod    * *   Pod    *  *   Pod    *
|  Kafka   |            *        *           *        *   *        *    *        *
| Resource | <------+  * Cluster  * ----->      *  *         *  *          *  *
|          | +------>  * Operator *
|          |            *        *              *  *         *  *          *  *
+----------+               *  *              *        *   *        *    *        *
                                            * Zookeeper* * Zookeeper*  * Zookeeper*
                                            *   Pod    * *   Pod    *  *   Pod    *
                                             *        *   *        *    *        *
                                                *  *         *  *          *  *

Kubernetes Land                                          Kafka Cluster
```

> ### Inside the Cruise Control UI pod

Reviewer: You did not created the Pod yet. This is probably `container` here?

```suggestion
### Inside the Cruise Control UI container
```

> Following the instructions on the [Cruise Control UI wiki] (https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui/wiki/CCFE-(Dev-Mode)---Docker), we can configure an Nginx server as a reverse-proxy to forward Cruise Control UI requests to the Cruise Control REST API.

Reviewer: The Markdown link seems ot be wrong -> but the URL itself doesn't work for me either.

```suggestion
Following the instructions on the [Cruise Control UI wiki](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui/wiki/CCFE-(Dev-Mode)---Docker), we can configure an Nginx server as a reverse-proxy to forward Cruise Control UI requests to the Cruise Control REST API.
```

> Following the instructions on the [Cruise Control UI wiki] (https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui/wiki/CCFE-(Dev-Mode)---Docker), we can configure an Nginx server as a reverse-proxy to forward Cruise Control UI requests to the Cruise Control REST API.

Reviewer 2: `Nginx` -> `NGINX`

```
                                +-------------+
                                |             |      
+----------------+  GET /       |             |
|                |              |    nginx    |       
|   User / CCFE  +<------------>+             |       
|                |   CCFE FILES |             |       
+-------+--------+              |  10.0.0.4   |----------->
        ^                       |  port 80    |  CC REST API request     
        |                       |             |  (/kafkacruisecontrol)    
        |                       |             |   
        +---------------------->+             +        
      {GET,POST}                |             |      
      /kafkacruisecontrol       +-------------+

Cruise Control UI pod
```

> ### Building the Cruise Control UI pod

Reviewer: Still container I guess?

```suggestion
### Building the Cruise Control UI container
```

We can build our own Cruise Control image with a configured Ngnix server and Cruise Control UI binaries following the instructions on the [Cruise Control UI wiki](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui/wiki/CCFE-(Dev-Mode)---Docker), creating a Dockerfile like the following:

```bash
# Dockerfile
FROM nginx

> ENV VERSION=0.4.0

Reviewer 2: `VERSION` -> `CRUISE_CONTROL_UI_VERSION`

ENV NGINX_HOME=/usr/share/nginx/html/

RUN curl -LO https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui/releases/download/v${VERSION}/cruise-control-ui-${VERSION}.tar.gz; \
    tar xvfz cruise-control-ui-${VERSION}.tar.gz -C ${NGINX_HOME} --strip-components=2; \
    rm -f cruise-control-ui-${VERSION}.tar.gz*; \
    echo "dev,dev,/kafkacruisecontrol/" > "${NGINX_HOME}"static/config.csv;

EXPOSE 80
```

> Then building and pushing the image to a container registry

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then building and pushing the image to a container registry:
```

---
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cruise-control-ui
  labels:
    app: cruise-control-ui
data:
  default.conf: |2+
        server {
        listen       80;
        listen  [::]:80;
        server_name  localhost;

        location / {
            root   /usr/share/nginx/html;
            index  index.html index.htm;
        }

        location /kafkacruisecontrol/ {
            proxy_set_header Host $host;
            proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
            proxy_buffering off;
            proxy_pass http://my-cluster-cruise-control:9090/kafkacruisecontrol/;
        }
        
        error_page   500 502 503 504  /50x.html;
        location = /50x.html {
            root   /usr/share/nginx/html;
        }
        }
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: cruise-control-ui
  labels:
    app: cruise-control-ui
spec:
  selector:
    app: cruise-control-ui
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80
```

Then run it:
```
kubectl apply -f cruise-control-ui.yaml -n <namespace>
```

## Using Cruise Control Front End

After being deployed, port-forward the Cruise Control UI service to access it locally:

```

> kubectl port-forward svc/cruise-control-ui 8090:80

Reviewer 4: I guess you are using port-forwarding because of using minikube for your own tests but I don't see you mentioned using minikube across the blog post. You should be clear, otherwise people can use different `Service` and getting a public accessible URL (i.e. they try with AKS, ...)

Author: Added a line about minikube

```

> Then navigate ‘http://127.0.0.1:8090’ in your browser

Reviewer 2: We can use a link here so readers can directly click on it

> ![Cruise Control Frontend]({{ "/assets/images/posts/2019-08-08-cruise-control-frontend.png" }})

Reviewer 3: No change to frontend since 2019?

Author: Not much has changed in this particular page since 2019 so I reused this image

## Conclusion

> Although it is possible to run a Cruise Control UI instance alonside a Strimzi managed Kafka cluster like this, it is still dangerous!

Reviewer 2: Not sure I would call it dangerous. It depends on the environments.

Author: Updated the text, let me know what you think!

To allow the Cruise Control UI access to the Cruise Control Rest API we must disable the REST API security settings.

> Having these security settings disabled gives users full access to the Cruise Control API and allows them to perform potentially destructive Cruise Control operations that are not coordinated or supported by Strimzi Operator.

Reviewer 2: If the REST API is exposed. Otherwise you still need to have access to the pod/service to use it

Author: Are Strimzi pods/services not accessible to users by default?

If using the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi managed Kafka cluster, it is best to stick with using it solely for monitoring your cluster, not for operating on it.

> That beng said, use at your own risk!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That being said, use at your own risk!
```

---
layout: post
title: "Hacking Strimzi for Cruise Control UI"
date: 2022-10-31
author: kyle_liberti
---

> For some time now, Strimzi has used for [Cruise Control](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control) for automated partition rebalancing and has offered Strimzi custom resources for safely configuring, deploying, and communicating with Cruise Control through the Strimzi Operator.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
For some time now, Strimzi has used [Cruise Control](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control) for automated partition rebalancing and has offered Strimzi custom resources for safely configuring, deploying, and communicating with Cruise Control through the Strimzi Operator.
```

> These custom resources not only provide a strong abstraction leaving Cruise Control as an implementation detail but also offer great declaritive support.

Reviewer 5: The "strong abstraction" isn't true: The `Rebalance` CR doesn't really hide the fact that it's CC underneath at all.

```suggestion
These custom resources provide great support for declarative rebalancing.
```

Even this is pretty weird, since rebalancing itself is inherently imperative. It's only with support for automatic rebalancing that the declarative aspect becomes meaningful.

That being said, rather than working with custom resources, you might prefer to interact with applications like Cruise Control through a graphical user interface.

> LinkedIn provides such an interface with their [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) application which supports several Cruise Control operations like viewing Kafka cluster status, getting Kafka cluster load information at the broker and partition level, and executing partition rebalances, all with just a couple button clicks.

Reviewer 5: Long sentence!

Although Strimzi does not offer direct support for the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) it can still be run with and connected to a Strimzi-managed Cruise Control instance.

This post will walk through how to do so! 

![Cruise Control Frontend](/assets/images/posts/2019-08-08-cruise-control-frontend.png)

## Motivation

> Maybe you want a pretty dashboard to view your cluster status, maybe you want to preform Cruise Control operations without having to open a text editor, or maybe you are just a visual person, reguardless of the reason, we have been getting a lot of requests for how to set up the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Maybe you want a pretty dashboard to view your cluster status, maybe you want to preform Cruise Control operations without having to open a text editor, or maybe you are just a visual person, regardless of the reason, we have been getting a lot of requests for how to set up the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster.
```

> Maybe you want a pretty dashboard to view your cluster status, maybe you want to preform Cruise Control operations without having to open a text editor, or maybe you are just a visual person, reguardless of the reason, we have been getting a lot of requests for how to set up the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster.

Reviewer 5: Again, long sentence.

```suggestion
Maybe you want a pretty dashboard to view your cluster status, maybe you want to preform Cruise Control operations without having to open a text editor, or maybe you are just a visual person. Regardless of the reason, we have been getting a lot of requests for how to set up the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster.
```

We can do so by configuring Cruise Control within a `Kafka` resource like this:

``` 
# kafka-cruise-control.yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  cruiseControl:
    config:
      webserver.security.enable: false
      webserver.ssl.enable: false  
```

After configuring our Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster, we can deploy and connect the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) in one of two ways:

* METHOD ONE: Inside the Cruise Control Pod
* METHOD TWO: Outside the Cruise Control Pod

## METHOD ONE: Inside the Cruise Control Pod 

With our Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster deployed, we can create and deploy a custom Cruise Control image which includes the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) application inside of it.

![](/assets/images/posts/2022-10-31-hacking-for-cruise-control-ui-1.png)

### Inside the custom Cruise Control container

> Here the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) will run alongside Cruise Control application in the same container making its requests directly to the Cruise Control REST API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) will run alongside the Cruise Control application in the same container making its requests directly to the Cruise Control REST API.
```

            proxy_buffering off;
            proxy_pass http://my-cluster-cruise-control:9090/kafkacruisecontrol/;
        }
        
        error_page   500 502 503 504  /50x.html;
        location = /50x.html {
            root   /usr/share/nginx/html;
        }
        }
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: cruise-control-ui
  labels:
    app: cruise-control-ui
spec:
  selector:
    app: cruise-control-ui
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 80
      targetPort: 80
```

Then run it:
```
kubectl apply -f cruise-control-ui.yaml -n <namespace>
```

## Using Cruise Control Front End

After being deployed, the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) application will be accessible via the cruise-control-ui `service`.

If running the cluster locally with [minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube), you can port-forward the Cruise Control UI `service` to access it locally:

```
kubectl port-forward svc/cruise-control-ui 8090:80
```

Then navigate [‘http://127.0.0.1:8090’](http://127.0.0.1:8090) in your browser

![Cruise Control Frontend](/assets/images/posts/2019-08-08-cruise-control-frontend.png)

## Conclusion

> Although it is possible to run a [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) UI instance alongside a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster it is only possible when the Cruise Control REST API security settings are disabled.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Although it is possible to run a [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) instance alongside a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster it is only possible when the Cruise Control REST API security settings are disabled.
```

Having these security settings disabled exposes the Cruise Control API to potentially destructive Cruise Control operations that are not coordinated or supported by Strimzi Operator.

> If using the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster, it is best to stick with using it solely for monitoring your cluster, not for operating on it.

Reviewer 5: It's a bit disappointing that these caveats only come at the end, after you've got people excited about this UI thing that looks somewhat like the ever-missing Strimzi UI. So maybe we should have a word of caution at the start too so people understand from the start that the UI is only _really_ safe for read-only interactions.

---
layout: post
title: "Hacking Strimzi for Cruise Control UI"
date: 2022-10-31
author: kyle_liberti
---

For some time now, Strimzi has used [Cruise Control](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control) for automated partition rebalancing and has offered Strimzi custom resources for safely configuring, deploying, and communicating with Cruise Control through the Strimzi Operator.
These custom resources provide great support for declaritive rebalancing.
That being said, rather than working with custom resources, you might prefer to interact with applications like Cruise Control through a graphical user interface.
LinkedIn provides such an interface with their [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) application which supports several Cruise Control operations like viewing Kafka cluster status and executing partition rebalances, all with just a couple button clicks.
Although Strimzi does not offer direct support for the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) it can still be run with and connected to a Strimzi-managed Cruise Control instance.

This post will walk through how to do so! 

**Warning**

> Setting up the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) as described in this blog post requires disabling Cruise Control REST API settings.

Reviewer 2: Should it be "requires disabling _some_ Cruise Control REST API settings" or "requires disabling Cruise Control REST API _security_ settings"?

> Having these security settings disabled exposes the Cruise Control API to potentially destructive Cruise Control operations that are not coordinated or supported by Strimzi Operator.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean users could manually trigger a rebalance that could interfere with the Operator?
It would be good to clarify so users know what not to do.

Reviewer 2: You make it sound very dangerous. I wonder if we could say something like:
```
Without authentication, anybody with access to the Cruise Control API can use all the available endpoints and trigger administrative actions such as rebalancing load or decommissioning brokers  for example.
```

If using the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster, it is best to stick with using it solely for monitoring your cluster, not for operating on it.
That being said, use at your own risk!

![Cruise Control Frontend](/assets/images/posts/2019-08-08-cruise-control-frontend.png)

## Motivation

We have been getting a lot of requests for how to set up the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster.
Maybe you want a pretty dashboard to view your cluster status.

> Maybe you want to preform Cruise Control operations without having to open a text editor.

Reviewer 2: We kind of said users should not perform operations just above ...

Maybe you are just a visual person.
Regardless of the reason, we want to provide some basic instructions for getting you started!

## Prerequisites

For starters we will need a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster with Cruise Control enabled.

![](/assets/images/posts/2022-10-31-hacking-for-cruise-control-ui-1.png)

Since Strimzi does not support creating custom Cruise Control API user roles we will need to disable HTTP basic authentication settings.

We can do so by configuring Cruise Control within a `Kafka` resource like this:

``` 
# kafka-cruise-control.yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  cruiseControl:
    config:
      webserver.security.enable: false
```

After configuring our Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster, we can deploy and connect the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) in one of two ways:

* METHOD ONE: Inside the Cruise Control pod

> * METHOD TWO: Outside the Cruise Control pod

Reviewer 2: Would `In a dedicated Cruise Control UI pod` be a more descriptive name?

> * METHOD ONE: Inside the Cruise Control Pod
> * METHOD TWO: Outside the Cruise Control Pod
> 
> ## METHOD ONE: Inside the Cruise Control Pod 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* METHOD ONE: Inside the Cruise Control pod
* METHOD TWO: Outside the Cruise Control pod

## METHOD ONE: Inside the Cruise Control pod 
```

  labels:
    app: cruise-control-ui
data:
  default.conf: |2+
        server {
        listen 9090 ssl;
        server_name localhost; 
        ssl_certificate     /etc/ssl/certs/cruise-control.crt;
        ssl_certificate_key /etc/ssl/certs/cruise-control.key;
       
        location / {
            root   /usr/share/nginx/html;
            index  index.html index.htm;
        }

        location /kafkacruisecontrol/ {
            proxy_set_header Host $host;
            proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
            proxy_buffering off;
            proxy_pass https://my-cluster-cruise-control:9090/kafkacruisecontrol/;
            proxy_ssl_verify              off;
        }
        
        error_page   500 502 503 504  /50x.html;
        location = /50x.html {
            root   /usr/share/nginx/html;
        }
        }
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: cruise-control-ui
  labels:
    app: cruise-control-ui
spec:
  selector:
    app: cruise-control-ui
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 9090
      targetPort: 9090
```

Then run it:
```
kubectl apply -f cruise-control-ui.yaml -n <namespace>
```

## Using Cruise Control Front End

> After being deployed, the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) application will be accessible via the cruise-control-ui `service`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After deployment, the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) application will be accessible via the cruise-control-ui `service`.
```

If running the cluster locally with [minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube), you can port-forward the Cruise Control UI `service` to access it locally:

```

> kubectl port-forward svc/cruise-control-ui 9090:9090

Reviewer 2: Is this true with method 1 to?

```

> Then navigate [‘https://127.0.0.1:9090’](https://127.0.0.1:9090) in your browser

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Then navigate to [‘https://127.0.0.1:9090’](https://127.0.0.1:9090) in your browser
```

![Cruise Control Frontend](/assets/images/posts/2019-08-08-cruise-control-frontend.png)

## Conclusion

Now we have a graphical user interface for Cruise Control running alongside and connected to a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster. 
This UI is great for monitoring your Kafka cluster and getting more insight on the data and operations Cruise Control has to offer!

> In one of the future versions, the Strimzi community hopes to add the option for creating custom Cruise Control API users.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In a future version, the Strimzi community hopes to add the option for creating custom Cruise Control API users.
```

> This would remove the requirement for the Cruise Control API security settings to be disabled for applications like the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) to work with Strimzi but until then, hack away!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This would remove the requirement for the Cruise Control API security settings to be disabled for applications like the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) to work with Strimzi. Until then, hack away!
```

> That being said, use at your own risk!

Reviewer 3: We have this in the intro now. Do we still want it in the conclusion too? I think having these caveats is better in the intro. Then we could reserve the conclusion to what we've achieved by going ahead: got a Cruise Control UI up-and-running -- which is great for monitoring.

### Building the Cruise Control UI container

We can base our custom Cruise Control image on the original Strimzi Kafka image and install the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) bits on top:

```bash
#Dockerfile
FROM quay.io/strimzi/kafka:latest-kafka-3.2.3

ENV CC_UI_VERSION=0.4.0
ENV CC_UI_HOME=./cruise-control-ui/dist/

USER root

RUN mkdir -p ${CC_UI_HOME}

RUN curl -LO https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui/releases/download/v${CC_UI_VERSION}/cruise-control-ui-${CC_UI_VERSION}.tar.gz; \
    tar xvfz cruise-control-ui-${CC_UI_VERSION}.tar.gz -C ${CC_UI_HOME} --strip-components=2; \
    rm -f cruise-control-ui-${CC_UI_VERSION}.tar.gz*; \
    echo "dev,dev,/kafkacruisecontrol/" > "${CC_UI_HOME}"static/config.csv;

USER 1001
```

Then building and pushing the image to a container registry:
```
# When building, tag the image with the name of a container registry
# that is accessible by the Kubernetes cluster.
docker build . -t <registry>/<cruise-control-with-ui-image-name>

# Push the image to that container registry
docker push <registry>/<cruise-control-with-ui-image-name>
```

### Deploying the custom Cruise Control pod

> To deploy our custom Cruise Control pod we must edit our Strimzi Cluster Operator `Deployment`:

Reviewer 4: Not sure if editing the CO deployment is the best way.
If it's already running, it means that you need to restart to get a new CC image to be used.
If CC is already running, it would mean two rolls (CO + CC).
In general, I prefer to leave the default images as they are and using the `image` field, so in this case the `cruiseControl.image` field in the `Kafka` CR. It will just let the CO to detect the change and roll a CC if already running but then using the new image.
It's just my opinion, it's worth taking others ... @scholzj @tombentley @mimaison wdyt?

Although Strimzi does not offer direct support for the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) it can still be run with and connected to a Strimzi-managed Cruise Control instance.

This post will walk through how to do so! 

**Warning**

Setting up the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) as described in this blog post requires disabling HTTP basic authentication for the Cruise Control REST API.
Without authentication, anybody with access to the Cruise Control API can use all the available endpoints and trigger administrative actions such as rebalancing partitions or decommissioning brokers.
If using the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster, it is best to stick with using it solely for monitoring your cluster, not for operating on it.
That being said, use at your own risk!

![Cruise Control Frontend](/assets/images/posts/2019-08-08-cruise-control-frontend.png)

## Motivation

> We have been getting a lot of requests for how to set up the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster.

Author: Done

## Prerequisites

For starters we need a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster with Cruise Control enabled.

![](/assets/images/posts/2022-10-31-hacking-for-cruise-control-ui-1.png)

Since Strimzi does not support creating custom Cruise Control API user roles we need to disable HTTP basic authentication settings.

We can do so by configuring Cruise Control within a `Kafka` resource like this:

``` 
# kafka-cruise-control.yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  cruiseControl:
    config:
      webserver.security.enable: false
```

After configuring our Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster, we can deploy and connect the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) in one of two ways:

* METHOD ONE: Customizing the Cruise Control pod
* METHOD TWO: Creating a dedicated Cruise Control UI pod

## METHOD ONE: Customizing the Cruise Control pod

With our Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster deployed, we can create and deploy a custom Cruise Control image which includes the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) application inside of it.

> ![](/assets/images/posts/2022-10-31-hacking-for-cruise-control-ui-1.png)

Reviewer 4: this is the basic deployment picture where CC UI is not showed at all. You are showing the UI container in the next picture, so we should remove this picture here? or what was its purpose? Or you should make clear in the picture that in the CC pod there is the UI as well ... but then it's not the basic/standard deployment anymore.

Author: Removed

### Inside the custom Cruise Control container

Here the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) will run alongside the Cruise Control application in the same container making its requests directly to the Cruise Control REST API.

![](/assets/images/posts/2022-10-31-hacking-for-cruise-control-ui-3.png)

### Building the Cruise Control UI container

We can base our custom Cruise Control image on the original Strimzi Kafka image and install the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) bits on top:

```bash
#Dockerfile

> FROM quay.io/strimzi/kafka:latest-kafka-3.2.3

Reviewer: The latest image is constantly changing and basically does not produce a reproducible build. You should use the last release image. You should probably also clarify how it should be updated with every Strimzi upgrade.

Author: Updated the image tag and added a comment

ENV CC_UI_VERSION=0.4.0
ENV CC_UI_HOME=./cruise-control-ui/dist/

USER root

RUN mkdir -p ${CC_UI_HOME}

RUN curl -LO https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui/releases/download/v${CC_UI_VERSION}/cruise-control-ui-${CC_UI_VERSION}.tar.gz; \
    tar xvfz cruise-control-ui-${CC_UI_VERSION}.tar.gz -C ${CC_UI_HOME} --strip-components=2; \
    rm -f cruise-control-ui-${CC_UI_VERSION}.tar.gz*; \
    echo "dev,dev,/kafkacruisecontrol/" > "${CC_UI_HOME}"static/config.csv;

> USER 1001

Reviewer: Maybe I missed something ... but who and how starts or serves the UI in this case? You do not seem to modify the startup scripts.

Reviewer: The diagram is good. But how does it find it? Does CC Server automatically watch for `CC_UI_HOME` env var? Or how do you tell it _there is a director here with the UI, serve it_? I'm interested myself, but It hink this might be interested for the users as well.

Author: It is the latter,  we unpack the Cruise Control UI files into the `/cruise-control-ui/dist/` directory.
This directory must match the value specified by the Cruise Control  `webserver.ui.diskpath` configuration, the directory Cruise Control checks for UI files to serve. The default value of Cruise Control's  `webserver.ui.diskpath` configuration is `/cruise-control-ui/dist/`. Does that make sense?

 Just added a new sentence to include this information

Reviewer: Ok, makes sense. Thanks for the explanation. I think you should add `.` to the path => `./cruise-control-ui/dist/` as that is what you use in th eimage and what is the default in CC.

```

Then building and pushing the image to a container registry:
```
# When building, tag the image with the name of a container registry
# that is accessible by the Kubernetes cluster.
docker build . -t <registry>/<cruise-control-with-ui-image-name>

# Push the image to that container registry
docker push <registry>/<cruise-control-with-ui-image-name>

> ```

Reviewer: I think it would be great to add some example - people who never build and pushed a container image might be confused from this. E.g.

```
docker build . -t quay.io/kyguy/cruise-control-with-ui:latest
# Push the image to that container registry
docker push quay.io/kyguy/cruise-control-with-ui:latest
```

Author: Updated the text, let me know what you think!

```
kubectl edit deployment strizi-cluster-operator
```

Updating the env section of the spec with the custom Cruise Control image:
```
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  name: strimzi-cluster-operator
  ...
spec:
  ...
  template:
    ...
    spec:
      containers:
      - args:
        - /opt/strimzi/bin/cluster_operator_run.sh
        env:
          ...
        - name: STRIMZI_DEFAULT_CRUISE_CONTROL_IMAGE
          value: <registry>/<cruise-control-with-ui-image-name>

```

After updating the deployment, the Cluster Operator will pull the new custom Cruise Control image and run it.

## METHOD TWO: Creating a dedicated Cruise Control UI pod

With our Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster deployed, we can now create a Cruise Control UI pod to run alongside it.

![](/assets/images/posts/2022-10-31-hacking-for-cruise-control-ui-2.png)

### Inside the Cruise Control UI container

Following the instructions on the [Cruise Control UI wiki](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui/wiki/CCFE-(Dev-Mode)---Docker), we can configure an Nginx server as a reverse-proxy to forward Cruise Control UI requests to the Cruise Control REST API.

> ![](/assets/images/posts/2022-10-31-hacking-for-cruise-control-ui-4.png)

Reviewer: The picture presents the UI as a separate process communicating with the Nginx which proxies the requests to the Cruise Control API. Is that the case? Or is the UI just a bunch of static files served by Nginx? That seems to be suggested by the Dockerfile.

Author: The UI is just static files served over NGNIX. Updated the diagram accordingly, let me know what you think!

---
layout: post
title: "Hacking Strimzi for Cruise Control UI"
date: 2022-10-31
author: kyle_liberti
---

For some time now, Strimzi has used [Cruise Control](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control) for automated partition rebalancing and has offered Strimzi custom resources for safely configuring, deploying, and communicating with Cruise Control through the Strimzi Operator.
These custom resources provide great support for declaritive rebalancing.
That being said, rather than working with custom resources, you might prefer to interact with applications like Cruise Control through a graphical user interface.
LinkedIn provides such an interface with their [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) application which supports several Cruise Control operations like viewing Kafka cluster status and executing partition rebalances, all with just a couple button clicks.
Although Strimzi does not offer direct support for the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) it can still be run with and connected to a Strimzi-managed Cruise Control instance.

This post will walk through how to do so! 

**Warning**

> Setting up the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) as described in this blog post requires disabling some of the Cruise Control REST API security settings.

Reviewer 2: Reading the post, it looks like we only disable basic authentication. If so maybe we should make it clear upfront

Having these security settings disabled exposes the Cruise Control API to potentially destructive Cruise Control operations that are not coordinated or supported by Strimzi Operator.
For example, it would allow users to manually decomission brokers and trigger partition rebalances, operations which could interfere with Strimzi operations. 

> If using the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster, it is best to stick with using it solely for monitoring your cluster, not for operating on it.

Reviewer 6: Is there a way to enforce this read-only mode?

Author: Not currently, but there will be after this PR [1] I'll make an update to the blog after that PR is complete

[1] https://github.com/strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator/pull/7677

Reviewer 6: I think it's also fine to mention the ongoing work to enable it with a link to the PR. A future reader will be able to easily find out the required configuration.

Author: It's mentioned at the bottom of the post:
```
In a future version, the Strimzi community hopes to add the option for creating custom Cruise Control API users.
This would remove the requirement for the Cruise Control API security settings to be disabled for applications like the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) to work with Strimzi. Until then, hack away!
```
However, I would like to avoid a link to this PR since it is in early stages

That being said, use at your own risk!

![Cruise Control Frontend](/assets/images/posts/2019-08-08-cruise-control-frontend.png)

## Motivation

We have been getting a lot of requests for how to set up the Cruise Control UI with a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster.
Maybe you want a pretty dashboard to view your cluster status.
Maybe you want to compare optimization proposals without having to open a text editor.
Maybe you are just a visual person.
Regardless of the reason, we want to provide some basic instructions for getting you started!

## Prerequisites

> For starters we will need a Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster with Cruise Control enabled.

Reviewer 2: Most of the post uses present tense. I think we can drop `will` here and just below.

![](/assets/images/posts/2022-10-31-hacking-for-cruise-control-ui-1.png)

Since Strimzi does not support creating custom Cruise Control API user roles we will need to disable HTTP basic authentication settings.

We can do so by configuring Cruise Control within a `Kafka` resource like this:

``` 
# kafka-cruise-control.yaml
apiVersion: kafka.strimzi.io/v1beta2
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  cruiseControl:
    config:
      webserver.security.enable: false
```

After configuring our Strimzi-managed Kafka cluster, we can deploy and connect the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) in one of two ways:

* METHOD ONE: Inside a dedicated Cruise Control pod

> * METHOD TWO: Outside a dedicated Cruise Control pod

Reviewer 2: I know we've iterating over these names a few times already and I wonder if `Customizing the Cruise Control pod` and `Creating a dedicated Cruise Control UI pod` would be even clearer. WDYT?

  labels:
    app: cruise-control-ui
data:
  default.conf: |2+
        server {
        listen 9090 ssl;
        server_name localhost; 
        ssl_certificate     /etc/ssl/certs/cruise-control.crt;
        ssl_certificate_key /etc/ssl/certs/cruise-control.key;
       
        location / {
            root   /usr/share/nginx/html;
            index  index.html index.htm;
        }

        location /kafkacruisecontrol/ {
            proxy_set_header Host $host;
            proxy_set_header X-Real-IP $remote_addr;
            proxy_buffering off;
            proxy_pass https://my-cluster-cruise-control:9090/kafkacruisecontrol/;
            proxy_ssl_verify              off;
        }
        
        error_page   500 502 503 504  /50x.html;
        location = /50x.html {
            root   /usr/share/nginx/html;
        }
        }
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Service
metadata:
  name: cruise-control-ui
  labels:
    app: cruise-control-ui
spec:
  selector:
    app: cruise-control-ui
  ports:
    - protocol: TCP
      port: 9090
      targetPort: 9090
```

Then run it:
```
kubectl apply -f cruise-control-ui.yaml -n <namespace>
```

## Using Cruise Control Front End

> After deployment, the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) application will be accessible via the cruise-control-ui `service`.

Reviewer 2: This is only valid for the second method.

If running the cluster locally with [minikube](https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube), you can port-forward the appropriate Cruise Control `service` to access it locally:

```
# METHOD ONE
kubectl port-forward svc/my-cluster-cruise-control 9090:9090

# METHOD TWO
kubectl port-forward svc/cruise-control-ui 9090:9090
```

> Then navigate to [‘https://127.0.0.1:9090’](https://127.0.0.1:9090) in your browser

Reviewer 2: We don't need the single quotes around the link

![](/assets/images/posts/2022-10-31-hacking-for-cruise-control-ui-3.png)

### Building the Cruise Control UI container

We can base our custom Cruise Control image on the original Strimzi Kafka image and install the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) bits on top:

```Dockerfile
# The base image referenced here should point to the latest released Strimzi and a supported Kafka version.
# At the time of this post it is 0.32.0 and 3.3.1 respectively.
FROM quay.io/strimzi/kafka:0.32.0-kafka-3.3.1

ENV CC_UI_VERSION=0.4.0
ENV CC_UI_HOME=./cruise-control-ui/dist/

USER root

RUN mkdir -p ${CC_UI_HOME}

RUN curl -LO https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui/releases/download/v${CC_UI_VERSION}/cruise-control-ui-${CC_UI_VERSION}.tar.gz; \
    tar xvfz cruise-control-ui-${CC_UI_VERSION}.tar.gz -C ${CC_UI_HOME} --strip-components=2; \
    rm -f cruise-control-ui-${CC_UI_VERSION}.tar.gz*; \
    echo "dev,dev,/kafkacruisecontrol/" > "${CC_UI_HOME}"static/config.csv;

USER 1001
```

> In the Dockerfile above, we unpack the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) files into the `/cruise-control-ui/dist/` directory.

Reviewer: With `./` and not just `/` I guess?

```suggestion
In the Dockerfile above, we unpack the [Cruise Control UI](https://github.com/linkedin/cruise-control-ui) files into the `./cruise-control-ui/dist/` directory.
```

Author: Thanks for the catch
